+++
title = "Eurotrip 5: Train to Florence"
date = 2025-07-08
tags = ["post"]
draft = false
+++

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250708-STKL2461.jpg" 
    caption = "Mini torsades gets rekt." 
    alt = "Erika munches on yet another baked good"
>}}

Kicked off today with our normal "walk to get a coffee and pastry" outing, this time to Tartine & Ficelle where we both had flat whites (6/10), I had a chocolate torsades (think twisted croissant) and Erika had a mini torsades and a mini croissant. 

Turns out we might have spent too much time on that outing, because we just *barely* left ourselves enough time to make it to the train station. Originally we took the metro, but that involved a station change, and the second station greeted us with Lyon-rush-hour-traffic in full effect and therefore a massive clump of people trying to board the train. We bailed to an Uber, being that it was only a 10-minute drive and we still had 30 minutes, but our second Uber driver was the real MVP and it only took a brief sprint and last-second digestion of how Lyon's train station worked to board. I think the train started moving 3 minutes after we got on board. 

And that wasn't our closest call today. 

I enjoyed the train ride just as much as I thought I would -- which is to say a lot. I stared out the window the whole trip. The mountains are breathtaking, and all the little towns, which you kinda see the "backside" of from the train, had tons of character. Trains are way underrated, at least in my life. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250708-STKL3208.jpg" 
    caption = "It's hard to look away from the window when the view looks like this." 
    alt = "Fields and the alps out the window of the train."
>}}

That is, until they're running late. And you have a connecting train that you need to make. Which happened to us in Milan. Our changeover in Milan was supposed to be ~40 minutes, which sounded reasonable to me when booking, but little did I know that a 35 minute delay is never entirely out of the question. That's exactly what happened to us.

Our train pulled into the station less than five minutes before our next train was supposed to leave. I'll never forget standing on our original train, frantically refreshing the arrivals/departures board at Milan, trying to determine which platform we were arriving on and which we were departing from (wouldn't it be cool if they could determine that way ahead of time). 

After a *very* quick sprint, which involved scooping a lady's phone like a fumble recovery, we boarded our train, and this one left just minutes after boarding. 

Not quite as beautiful train ride though -- we were through the mountains at this point. Lots of cool towns, I was still pretty peeled to the window. 

But then we arrived in Florence. Our "artist's loft" AirBnb is exactly that, absolutely choc full of Firenze flavor, with the tiny bathroom to boot. But it's fun. 

We immediately dropped our bags and headed back out to Pino's Sandwiches to get a mortadella/burrata/pesto on focaccia sandwhich and a couple DC's. That went quick. We of course then needed to kick off the gelato train, so we walked over to GROM and grabbed a couple dishes that we ate under the Duomo. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250708-STKL3461.jpg" 
    caption = "I'm going to spend most of my time in Florence with sticky fingers." 
    alt = "Our gelato from GROM in front of the Duomo"
>}}

Then back to the AirBnb for a bit to clean up before heading down across the Arno (taking in a breathtaking view of the Ponte Vecchio) to Le Volpi e l'Uva, a wine and cheese bar where we enjoyed, you guessed it, some wine and cheese. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250708-STKL3493.jpg" 
    caption = "Taking in the view of the Ponte Vecchio on our way to wine & cheese." 
    alt = "Erika in front of the Ponte Vecchio"
>}}

And what's a night in Florence without some gelato? So of course we stopped at Cantina del Gelato Il Gelato Artigianale on our way back to grab a cup which we enjoyed while watching the sunset behind the Ponte Vecchio. 

Florence couldn't feel more different than Paris or Lyon, but in a great way. Much more laid back while at the same time much more hectic. It's going to be a fast-paced couple days here that I'm looking forward to. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250708-STKL3561.jpg" 
    caption = "Sunset behind the Ponte Vecchio." 
    alt = "A gondalo on the Arno in front of the Ponte Vecchio with the sun setting behind."
>}}