+++
title = "Eurotrip 6: Pizza, Shopping, and the Duomo"
date = 2025-07-09
tags = ["post"]
draft = false
+++

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250709-STKL3601.jpg" 
    caption = "Cream-filled croissant that I kinda had to box some Italians out to pay for." 
    alt = "Erika munches on yet another baked good"
>}}

Our AirBnb host, Michele, might be the nicest guy ever. The apartment is filled with notes from other guests which echo that sentiment. At check-in yesterday he let us know that the laundry in the apartment isn't working, but that he would be happy to take any laundry we needed and get it done himself. 

So after our obligatory morning coffee (7/10 cap) and pastry, we met with Michele back at the apartment to exchange laundry and also pick his brain on things to do while in town, especially where to find some real leather artisans. Honestly, he was pretty down on the Florentine leather scene, and said that today it was nothing like in the 70's, but that our best bet would be the Santo Spirito neighborhood. 

After a quick jaunt over the Ponte Vecchio, which was fun but extremely tourist-trappy, we wandered around Santo Spirito. One of the first shops that caught our eye was obviously Florenze Leather Pet Accessories, where we got talking to the owner. He's a 5th generation leather crafter and makes some beautiful dog collars/leashes/harnesses right there in his store. Unfortunately Pheebs spends too much time nakey to justify a fancy leather collar (believe me, I've thought about it before). 

The good news is that his mother hand-makes leather bags, which is exactly what Erika was on the hunt for, right there in the same neighborhood. We could not have wound up in a better place than Alicia Leather Workshop Firenze. Despite a serious language barrier, Erika was able to pick a model of bag, the exact size she wanted, which type of leather to use, and even the buckles.

To celebrate we went over to Gustapizza, which is in the same neighborhood, and crushed a salami/mozzarella/ricotta. Easily some of the best pizza we've ever had.

Erika needed to have an Instagram trendy moment, so we stopped by Vivoli to get some affogato. I'll be honest -- I don't think it was worth the wait. It was one of the longer lines we had today. But I may just be a hater. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250709-STKL3628.jpg" 
    caption = "Trendy espresso gelato." 
    alt = "Erika walking out of Vivolvi with her affogato"
>}}

After a quick breather back at the AirBnb (the feet are starting to feel the pain of successive 20k+ step days) we headed to the Duomo for our climb. We got there a little early on purpose, I knew there was likely to be a line, but I wasn't sure just how insane it might be. Luckily, the line for the ticketed time slots ended up being pretty small, so all being early meant is we had time to throw back a spritz and a gin & tonic before our climb. 

The climb up the Duomo is pretty wild. Ardent readers of the blog will remember the climb up Currituck light house. This climb is similar, but also completely different. For one thing, the Duomo has 463 steps versus the Currituck light house's 220. The Duomo also hits you with a variety of conditions -- some wild cylindrical steps, some entirely fine but also slightly claustrophobia-inducing tight hallways, and some walkways that look out over the interior of the Duomo, reminding that yes in fact you are a couple hundred feet up in a building. 

But the view from the top is spectacular. And seeing the Duomo from the ceiling, if unnerving, is equally spectacular. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250709-STKL3695-Pano.jpg" 
    caption = "Assassin's Creed-style perch spot (exactly one of you may get that, maybe not even one, but I get it and that's what really matters)." 
    alt = "Panormaic view of Florence from on top of the Duomo"
>}}

And Erika went up it. Even more ardent readers of the blog will remember that Erika did in fact **not** climb the light house. Illogical, but props to her none-the-less.

After descending, we stopped at the apartment to gather ourselves for a night out. 

Our first mission was to head back to Alicia's to check out the model she created. I grabbed a cannoli on the way, because I needed sugar and because Italy. 

I'm not sure what we were expecting, but it certainly wasn't a fully-functional bag made out of the same color paper as the leather Erika had picked out, including the actual buckles. Part of Alicia's process is cutting the cross-body strap to fit perfectly to the wearer, which she did on her first try. Truly the sweetest lady, at no point did I feel like we were getting bamboozled, and I truly believe Erika will be the recipient of a bag that'll last her the rest of her life. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250709-STKL3739.jpg" 
    caption = "Erika and Alicia pouring gusto into a bag." 
    alt = "Alicia helps Erika design a bag"
>}}

Our next mission was to get a drink, which we achieved at Babae, home of one of Florence's famous wine windows. Sitting on the streets of Florence (literally, we were basically sitting on the ground) while throwing back a sparkling red is truly a fun experience. The people watching is 10/10.  

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250709-STKL3803.jpg" 
    caption = "Erika pulls wine out of a literal hole in the wall." 
    alt = "Erika being handed some red wine through one of Florence's wine windows"
>}}

And then came dinner. I gotta be honest, the bag kinda got fumbled here. I'm not sure how Lungarno 23 made it onto my list (and I'm sorry if the person who rec'd it reads this), but it was our first disappointing meal of the trip. We started with our first pasta dish of the trip, and of course Erika loved it because she's basically never had real pasta before, but if I'm being honest, it was pretty mid. Ditto with the Florentine steak, which is supposed to be a classic, but was kinda just a really unevenly cooked meh decent of steak that cost entirely too much. 

But I'll fully admit that I'm a steak snob, and the best steaks I've made are ones I've made for myself. So big caveats there. 

Also, it may have been at dinner, but it was probably earlier, but Erika said the words "I love bread" and realer words have never been said. 

So to make up for dinner we stopped back at Cantina del Gelato (our second time now) where Erika got a dark chocolate gelato that was super rich and I had the classic Florentine cream flavor and pistachio. That hit pretty hard. 

One more action-packed day to get through tomorrow before we start the relaxing part of our trip. My feet will thank me. 






