+++
title = "Eurotrip 1: Arrival in Paris"
date = 2025-07-04
tags = ["post"]
draft = false
+++

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250704-STKL2278.jpg" 
    caption = "The Parisians sure know how to hang out." 
    alt = "Parisians hang out besides a canal"
>}}

I'll spare you the gory flight details. Everyone has horror stories. This trip ALMOST turned into one, but end of the day the worst thing that happened is I burnt like 6 hours on hold with United and Erika ended up not sleeping at all on the flight. We got to Paris, early even, and that's all that matters. 

Since we arrived right at the beginning of rush hour, so train from CDG into the city was packed. Taking the train meant we also get a tour of the industrial outskirts of Paris, which I weirdly enjoyed due because their architecture is just so different from ours. 

I tell you what -- walking up the steps of the metro station into a beautiful cool downtown Paris morning for the first time *is awesome.* I wish I could bottle up that feeling. 

We dropped our bags at a locker and immediately found a cafe.

Where Erika took a bite of a baguette. 

And our whole trip was affirmed. 

Because it didn't affect her. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250704-STKL2256.jpg" 
    caption = "The first bite." 
    alt = "Erika has a bite of baguette"
>}}

The cap was only okay though, maybe 5/10. It mainly just hit because the caffeine was necessary. 

Watching Parisians walk around is awesome though. Their style is impeccable. Somehow all their dogs are cute. Would absolutely take Phoebe for a walk here, she'd kill it. 

We then walked down to the Picasso museum, which consists primarily of artwork that he held onto over the years. Great way to get some culture in. 

Cold cap at Maurice. Very trendy, but cold isn't for me. 3/10. Good waffle though. 

Walked along the Seine, saw the Louvre and Notre Dame from a distance. We'll go back to get closer up. Seeing the Louvre reaffirmed that it's not the highest on our to-do list though, absolutely swamped with tourists. 

We hung out at a park, Square du Temple, until our AirBnb was ready. Shared a baguette sammy from Mmmozza, which hit. And continued to not affect Erika. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250704-STKL2273.jpg" 
    caption = "The view from our bench in the park." 
    alt = "cool graffiti on top of a building"
>}}

After schlepping our bags over to the AirBnb, we walked into the realization that the A/C wasn't working. A classic Kline family trope. Our colossal tiredness didn't prevent us from taking a shower and a nap, but we soon realized it wasn't going to be sustainable. Another AirBnb was found, in the same neighborhood, with working A/C, and we moved our stuff on over.

Dinner was Le Comptoir Général. In classic, American fashion -- at 7 o'clock. We think there were only Americans in there. As exhausted as we were, we still had some excellent cocktails. Dinner consisted of 3 small plates: a fried fish kebab, watermelon salad, and fried calamari. The fish and watermelon were far and away the better plates, but everything was excellent.  

Somehow, we managed to make it to 9:30 as I write this. No idea how. Editing the photos to include in this is going to be difficult.

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250704-STKL2276.jpg" 
    caption = "Erika matchy-matchy with her cocktial" 
    alt = "Erika and a blue cocktail"
>}}