+++
title = "Eurotrip 9: Il Borgo chillin'"
date = 2025-07-12
tags = ["post"]
draft = false
+++

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250712-STKL4066.jpg" 
    caption = "She doesn't like this photo but it has to go in. I've already let y'all down once." 
    alt = "Erika munches on yet another baked good"
>}}

Today was *exactly* what the doctor ordered. 

We slept great, despite no AC, to everyone's delight and surprise. 

All we had to do was wander across the courtyard to what I think must have been the carriage house for the villa, where our breakfast buffet was served. They made us a cap (6/10), scrambled fresh eggs, and then had your pretty typical yogurt/fresh bread/fresh croissant/prosciutto/parm spread. Obviously with plenty of their balsamic to put on top. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250712-STKL4068.jpg" 
    caption = "The view from our breakfast." 
    alt = "Looking out through some large doors into the coutyard."
>}}

Moved rooms again, this time to the Dalia suite, their newest and nicest room. Luckily it was right around the corner, as all our moves have been, so I'm not complaining. It's truly a beautiful room, with a giant fireplace set right behind the bed. 

Then it was time for our balsamic vinegar tasting. Two sisters operate the property, and they both live here along with their parents, who bought the property in the 70's. Their father used to make balsamic as a hobby, buying the casks used to make DOP-certified Emilia-Reggiana balsamic (it's a whole thing) from older estates along the way. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250712-STKL4142.jpg" 
    caption = "The attic of one of the villas where all the balsamic is produced." 
    alt = "The Il Borgo logo behind barrels used to make the balsamic vinegar"
>}}

The sisters realized they were sitting on a business, and created Il Borgo around this hobby. It's no surprise that authentic balsamic vinegar is unlike anything I've tasted before. There's a variety of criteria that need to be met to qualify as DOP, but the biggest surprise to me was that it consists of nothing but grape juice. I'm not sure what I thought balsamic vinegar was, but it definitely wasn't grape juice. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250712-STKL4162.jpg" 
    caption = "Erika pouring herself a taste of the goods. Balsamic vinegar is tasted using porcelain or plastic spoons -- metal messes up the flavor." 
    alt = "Erika pouring vinegar into a spoon"
>}}


They age the balsamic in barrels, in some cases for as long as 12 years. It ends up like a syrup, and almost as sweet. Learning about the whole process was enjoyable, and will continue the theme of completely ruining American food/grocery stores for us. 

After the tasting, we sat by the gardens. Read. Read in the pool. Dried off, and read in the gardens again. Chatted with the American family from Napa. Generally just *chilled out*, and it felt great. 

I walked to the little village like 5 minutes away to get what is probably the Italian equivalent of Chanello's but yet was so far and away above anything we get at home because a) Erika can eat it and b) the lambrusco we had along with it was fire. 

Then we went back to chilling. 

Excellent day. My ankles are thanking me. Another travel day tomorrow, starting early to get up to Santa Maria Maggiore, hopefully by mid-afternoon. 

Not a lot of pictures today, so here's a dump of ones I took around the property this morning. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250712-STKL4069.jpg" 
>}}

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250712-STKL4070.jpg" 
>}}

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250712-STKL4079.jpg" 
>}}

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250712-STKL4081.jpg" 
>}}

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250712-STKL4100.jpg" 
>}}

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250712-STKL4115.jpg" 
>}}

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250712-STKL4140.jpg" 
>}}
