+++
title = "Eurotrip 3: Rainy day in Paris"
date = 2025-07-06
tags = ["post"]
draft = false
+++

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250706-STKL2339.jpg" 
    caption = "You already know." 
    alt = "Erika mucnhes on a baked good"
>}}

The past two days of picture-perfect weather caught up with us. Rainy day today. 

As is our custom, the day started with croissants and coffee. Boulangerie Utopie for the croissants (Erika got a savory one this time, and I got a Viennese chocolate) and then we walked a couple blocks to République of Coffee for some warm drinks (7/10 cap) and a slightly more hearty meal consisting of some wildly fresh eggs. 

The Paris Metro is a roll of the dice. Sometimes it's empty, other times it's absolutely packed. We caught an absolutely packed train over to the 16th arrondissement where we had tickets to the Musée Marmottan Monet. After another espresso and small pastry, we walked down to the museum.

I made the mistake of not securing tickets for Musée d'Orsay in advance, so we kinda had to settle for Musée Marmottan Monet, but we enjoyed it none-the-less. Learned about Boudin, a contemporary of Monet, who had some excellent series of impressionist beach scenes. And then a huge collection of Monet's, which always impress. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250706-STKL2353.jpg" 
    caption = "Statue of Jean de La Fontaine, plus dog." 
    alt = "Erika approaching a statue"
>}}

We then caught a bus over to Jardin du Luxembourg (the whole Parisian transit system is honestly great, even if it's crowded) where we wandered around a little. The rain *really* started to kick in, and by the time we got to Notre Dame it was a full-on downpour. So we only had time for a selfie there.

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250706-STKL2377.jpg" 
    caption = "Rainy day at the Jardin du Luxembourg." 
    alt = "Erika standing in front of a fountain in the gardens"
>}}

Quick stop on the way back to the AirBnb so that Erika could get a charm for her bracelet, and then we sheltered away for a couple hours. I ran out to grab a couple treats, but pickings are slim at the boulangeries this time of day. Got to watch an exciting F1 race though. 

Dinner was La Boissonnerie (shoutout Harding for the rec) where we split an *excellent* beefsteak tomato/fried caper/anchovie starter, red tuna with carrots/peas/lima beans, and a very different but very delicious dessert of apricot/shortbread/lemon thyme basil cream. We then grabbed a drink at a bar up the street before jumping back on the metro. 

Part of the Paris romantic experience is seeing the Eiffel at night, especially on the hour when it does its sparkly thing. Did the guy who asked us 10+ times if we wanted to buy beer/wine/champagne, or his buddy who offered us the same light-up Eiffel trinket 7 times, detract from the experience? Maybe a little, but watching all the Instagram girlies make their TikToks was worth it.

And the Eiffel was beautiful too. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250706-STKL2392.jpg" 
    caption = "The Eiffel Tower doing its sparkly thing." 
    alt = "The Eiffel sparkles for five minutes every hour, it's cool."
>}}

Train to Lyon tomorrow, so late night/early morning tomorrow.