+++
title = "Eurotrip 4: 24 hours in Lyon"
date = 2025-07-07
tags = ["post"]
draft = false
+++

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250707-STKL2401.jpg" 
    caption = "At some point you might say "Stephen enough with the Erika eating a croissant pictures." Know that croissants are the point of this trip." 
    alt = "Erika munches on yet another baked good"
>}}

We woke up to another rainy morning in Paris. After a quick jaunt over to a coffee shop down the street from our AirBnb (Lam, switched up it up and got a flat white instead of a cap, so I feel like giving it a rating is unfair, but if it was a cap it would be a solid 9/10), we dashed through the rain to Gare de Lyon. 

It wasn't a particularly easy journey to board our train, made more difficult by a metro station closure and honestly not particularly helpful signage in Gare de Lyon, but we made it on board our train in plenty of time. 

We shared our train with what seemed to be ~300 French 10-year-olds chaperoned by ~5 French 15-year-olds. As disorganized as they were, they were actually quite polite and we had a relatively pleasant two hours to Lyon.

First stop in Lyon was our hotel, which is excellent. We took the Lyonesse metro from the train station to our hotel, and I gotta say, even better than Paris and probably the best I've been on. Very clean, very efficient. Our room was ready, so we were able to drop our bags and head back out into the city immediately. 

Lyon is at the confluence of two rivers, the Rhône and the Saône, and our hotel (along with much of downtown Lyon) is nestled between the two rivers. We crossed over the Saône to explore Vieux Lyon, which is old-town Lyon, right at the base of a large hill. For lunch we had mussels and some of the best frites I've ever tasted at a little cafe called Sol. I also got to pet a big black dog, which obviously was a highlight for me. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250707-STKL2420.jpg" 
    caption = "She's smiling because she doesn't realize how many steps we have left." 
    alt = "Climbing the steps to Fourvière"
>}}

After lunch we found a patisserie that sold the classic Lyonnaise brioche chocolate loaf. We carried that up *many* steps and a *very* steep hill to Basilica of Notre Dame of Fourvière, which offered *incredible* views of the city. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250707-STKL2450-Pano.jpg" 
    caption = "The view from Notre Dame of Fourvière, which is basically all of Lyon." 
    alt = "Spectacular cityscape."
>}}

Fourvière is also home to an ancient Roman amphitheater, which I really enjoyed seeing. What's especially cool is that the amphitheater is still in use, and is basically a modern concert venue, and there was a sound check going for a show tonight. We're still not entirely sure who's playing. 

We took a funicular back down the hill and wandered around downtown modern Lyon before heading back to the hotel to clean up for dinner. 

La Mère Brazier for dinner, which clearly ranks as one of the best meals Erika and I have ever had. I'm not skilled enough of a writer to capture in words the flavors, the pairings, the experience that we had. Selecting the pre fixe menu with wine pairings was absolutely the right move. Just make sure to clearly ask for your check when in a French restaurant because otherwise you might end up awkwardly sitting around for 30 minutes. 