+++
title = "Eurotrip 7: More Shopping, more Culture, more Gelato"
date = 2025-07-10
tags = ["post"]
draft = false
+++

I'm going to be honest with y'all, and just know that it's difficult for me to say this. But I'm going to be upfront.

I forgot to get a photo of Erika eating her croissant this morning. 

Truly, it's heartbreaking for me too. My later shot of her eating pizza is a feeble attempt to make up for it. It's just that I woke up super hungry this morning, and was overcome with excitement for what was truly a 9/10 cappuccino. 


{{< 
    figure src = "/20250710-STKL3821.jpg" 
    caption = "Yet another in my series called 'Following Erika through Europe.'" 
    alt = "Erika walking up the steps of the Bargello"
>}}

After which we walked over to the Bargello, which contains a variety of Michelangelos and Donatellos. It was a last-minute add to today's itinerary, but I'm glad I tossed it on there, because Rick Steve's tour of the place served as a great introduction to Michelangelo and David. The Bargello was also a welcome calm compared to the rest of the city. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250710-STKL3817.jpg" 
    caption = "The shopped in her native habitat -- the Ponte Vecchio." 
    alt = "Erika looking at stores from the middle of the bridge"
>}}

After the Bargello, we had another stop at Pino's to try a salami/fresh tomato/mozz sando (which hit). That was followed up by some more pastries/canolli and some much-needed espresso. 

Then we dove back into the tourist chaos at the Galleria dell'Accademia so Rick Steve's could show us the David. Going to the Bargello truly helped put the David in perspective, and made the experience of seeing it that much more awe-inspiring. Highly recommend doing them in that order. I'll also say, Rick Steves is kinda meh on the rest of the Galleria, and I kinda got to agree with him. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250710-STKL3845.jpg" 
    caption = "David kinda thicc tho." 
    alt = "The backside of Michelangelo's David"
>}}

Today was my turn to find a Firenze keepsake, and I followed in Erika's tracks with more leather goods. Our leather friends from yesterday had recommended another store in town, Il Bisonte, so we walked through the high-fashion district to their flagship Florence store. Granted, their goods aren't manufactured right here in Florence, but instead 20 miles outside the city, but that's far better than the imported stuff most of these vendors are selling. I picked up a very cool belt. 

It was time to grab a drink, so we went across the river and back to Babae. Instead of ordering from the wine window, we opted to sit inside and enjoy some bruschetta along with a bottle of their house white, which was very crispy. 

I'll keep it 100. At this point, both of us were beat. The rest of this day, while *absolutely beautiful* and *truly a once in a lifetime kinda experience*, was a slog to get through. I just need you to know that.  

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250710-STKL3882.jpg" 
    caption = "Warning: this hill is steeper than it looks." 
    alt = "Erika walking up the hill in the garden of Boboli"
>}}

Our goal was to see at least dusk from above the city, and when we left Babae we still had a couple hours to kill. We opted to wander through the Giardino di Boboli, which on the plus side had some incredible views of the city and loads of truly ancient statues, but also some incredibly steep hills to get to both of those things. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250710-STKL3910.jpg" 
    caption = "She may be smiling, but it could also be a grimace of ankle pain." 
    alt = "Erika poses in front of a great view of Florence from the gardens"
>}}

Luckily the gardens connected over to the part of town we wanted to get dinner in, so we grabbed a very good mushrooms/mozz/proscuitto pizza from Spaccio (not as good as Gusta, but still far better than anything back home).

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250710-STKL3935.jpg" 
    caption = "Crushing more 'za." 
    alt = "Erika eating pizza"
>}}

We wanted to be in that part of town so we could venture up some *more* hills to the Basilica di San Miniato so we could catch a sunset overlooking the city -- it's easily the best spot in town for doing so. But unfortunately they close before sunset, so we only got to hang out for ~20 minutes before a nice friar came to shoo us away. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250710-STKL3982-Pano.jpg" 
    caption = "The view from the Basilica di San Miniato." 
    alt = "Dusk over Florence from the hills above it"
>}}

So we trekked down to the typical spot, Piazzale Michelangelo, which was an *absolute madhouse*. We could only take another 20 minutes there before the house music from a basketball event and the sounds of a game of roshambo directly behind us drove us away. And thank goodness, we probably passed another couple hundred people rushing up the steps on our way back down.

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250710-STKL4011.jpg" 
    caption = "A little closer to sunset, and a little closer to the city at Piazzale Michelangelo." 
    alt = "Dusk over the Ponte Vecchio"
>}}

We wandered back across the Arno and, you guessed it, this time to a new gelato spot called RivaReno where Erika got a little too excited about the whole sour cherries they dropped in her dish for the cherry gelato, and I had an excellent caramel/banana concoction. 

One more stop before home -- we happened to come across a window where you could order take-away cocktails, so we both got my new favorite gin lemon to carry us the last few blocks home. 

Now it's time to nurse my *very abused* feet. Garmin's got me at 72 miles of walking this week. Luckily, it's all downhill from here. 






