+++
title = "OBX Part 1.5: Slightly sunburnt"
date = 2025-07-01
tags = ["post"]
draft = false
+++

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250627-STKL2188.jpg" 
    caption = "I didn't have a problem looking up the steps." 
    alt = "interior view going up the steps of currituck lighthouse"
>}}

The week at the beach finished the way it started. More good food, more sitting on the beach, but also more sub-par coffee shop visits. The OBX is not the place to get coffee.

Matt, Lila Kate, Erika, and I went on an outing Friday morning (I took Friday off instead of taking two afternoons off, great call). We trekked down to Duck for the aforementioned sub-par coffee, and up 12 to the Currituck Lighthouse. After a quick spin through the Marine museum, which housed interesting old wooden boats, LK, Matt and I went up the lighthouse. 

I thought I would be gassed at the top of the steps, but there's plenty of landings to catch a break on the way up. You could not pay Matt or myself to look down -- LK did a couple times and I could feel my stomach twisting. The view from the top was tremendous, well worth the $13 and slight unease from how low the railing is. Matt and I maintained contact with the wall. The kid who had been dragged to the top by his mother, who was screaming at the top of his lungs about how he didn't want to be there, slightly downgraded the experience for me, but overall still worth it. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250623-STKL2126.jpg" 
    caption = "Erika preparing a margarita -- in a Topo bottle?!?" 
    alt = "Erika pours cocktail back into a topochico bottle"
>}}

We mainlined beach dinners. A seafood boil, which was a DIY kit that I hadn't seen before but worked perfect for the six of us. Any more people and it might have been a stretch. Hamburgers. The Blue Point, a Duck classic, which has a relatively new bar out the back that overlooks the sound. And then old faithful, which hits on any last day at the beach: pizza.

I didn't mention it last time, beach cocktails were in full effect all week too. I think the winner was Matt's frozen gin & tonic. Props to Matt for lugging the Vitamix across a few states to make it happen. 

Saturday was pretty much an ideal beach day. I had a cortado and cookie to kick off the day, and then soaked in as much of the sun as I could.  The surf was a little rough, and the Shibumis had their first low-performance day due to some unpredictable off-shore wind, but luckily I think the heat had relaxed a little bit. 

I can't thank the Ste's enough for the trip, it was a great way to kick off the summer travel season. As of writing this, t-minus 59 hours until we're in the air on our way to Paris. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250628-STKL2228.jpg" 
    caption = "Classic OBX artsy shot." 
    alt = "steps from dune down to beach at sunset"
>}}