+++
title = "OBX Part 1: The Giorgis Experience"
date = 2025-06-25
tags = ["post"]
draft = false
+++

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250625_obx.jpg" 
    caption = "The Giorgi clan gathers on the beach at twilight." 
    alt = "Giorgis family on a beach at twilight"
>}}

The Outer Banks is kinda like comfort food to me -- it's an old reliable, know-what-you're-going-to-get kind of experience. Here's a halfway-through update on the week. 

The Giorgis clan does the OBX in familiar ways. Steph and I have a puzzle going. The beach is the hang for most of the day. We did some shopping in Timbuk II. Dinner is always a high point. 

Speaking of dinner, we've been having hitters all week. The Giorgis flank steak (which is oddly similar yet different from than the Kline flank steak). Fish tacos, made by Matt and Lila Kate, which were absolutely delicious. A classic seafood boil, which we picked up and prepared ourselves and thus a different experience than usual, but still excellent. Summertime BBQ chicken and pasta salad, made by Erika and grilled by me, which always delivers. 

Awesome desserts too. Chocolate chip cookies (not to toot my own horn, but what can I say, they're good), ice cream sandwich s'mores, peach-and-berry corn buckle with vanilla ice cream. 

What's a trip if it isn't centered around food? 

I've been working. Which kinda sucks. But I've figured out a good system. Wake up early, get in a light beach jog in, grab a plate of breakfast, get started early on work. Pause at lunch, run out to the beach for 45, grab a plate of leftovers for lunch, get back to work, wrapping up around 3:30. That gives me time to run back to the beach, or hang with the fam. It's a good system. And I took Friday off, so I can really lean into the beach then. 

The evenings are always relaxing. We watched OKC win the NBA finals, ran through wedding photos, and are currently cranking out a couple episodes of the new "The Bear" season. 

That's the week so far. I'll report back at the end of the trip with updates on how the rest of the week went. 