+++
title = "Eurotrip 2: Champs-Élysées, Eiffel, more eating"
date = 2025-07-05
tags = ["post"]
draft = false
+++

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250705-STKL2285-combined.png" 
    caption = "This is now a Erika eating bread blog. Be happy for her." 
    alt = "Erika picking out a croissant and then attacking it"
>}}

Started off the day at a walk-up coffee shop down the street called Sample. They spin hip hop records, hence the name, which gave it a cool vibe. Erika was psyched to get cold brew, and I had a 7/10 cap. 

Walked across the third to the French Bastard (shout out to Watts for the rec, you'll notice a theme). The croissant and pain au chocolat were excellent, but the pistachio beignets left something to be desired (even if they did give us two). Met a cute dog whose owner brought her from New York.

Metroed over to Champs-Élysées, where Rick Steves gave us a tour and therefore a culture moment. We walked under the Arc de Triomphe, tasted some of the history, and saw the McDonalds that (rightfully) had Parisians up in arms. Didn't eat there though. 

We went into the Louis Vuitton flagship store, purely out of curiosity. The building next to it is shaped like a giant piece of Louis V luggage, which is impressive. The Nike House of Innovation store was more our speed, even if they don't carry the SB line. My custom Nike shirt with a baguette-shaped patch will be my main Paris memento. 

On our walk to the Eiffel happened across a Le Labo store, which is the cologne I wear, and they had a Paris-specific scent (vanilla scented, to remind you of French pastry), so that'll be my other memento. The perfumer makes your bottle right in front of you and that was fascinating to see. 

After grabbing a crisp white wine, running into a fromagerie for a soft cheese, and boulangerie for half a baguette, we sat down in the shade underneath the Eiffel and enjoyed the people watching. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250705-STKL2324-combined.png" 
    caption = "Yeah the Eiffel Tower was there but this goat cheese tho." 
    alt = "Eiffel behind some trees, a white wine, some goat cheese with pistachio, and a baguette."
>}}

By the way, French people really do be walking around with two or three baguettes. It's not a stereotype -- it's real. 

There was one more, more Erika-centric store on our list, and it took us into a French shopping mall. I feel like it helped me understand and appreciate French style. I'd call the mall refined chaos. Like if Nordstrom was having a black friday sale. No individual stores, everything all mashed together, but somehow still aesthetic. 

Then back to the AirBnb to cool off and get cleaned up before dinner. The electricity didn't work this morning, but thankfully the A/C was still running. I knew it was a breaker, but none in our apartment was tripped. Found one in the hallway and got us taken care of. 

Derriere for dinner (shout out to Watts). The whole feeling of the place is that you're in someone's really funky but well designed house, like we sat on a sofa in the "living room". Incredible tomato tart to start, Erika had an excellent duck confit, and I had an incredible tenderloin with mashed potatoes. Dessert was a coffee mille-feuille, something Erika had been fiending for since French class. 

Post dinner drinks were at Little Red Door, where I had a pear-whisky-absinthe cocktail that had the coolest ice cube in it (I'm easy to impress I guess) and Erika had a pêche-mêlée peach drink. Speakeasy vibe, had to call Watts to figure out how to get in (yes, another Watts shoutout). 

25,000 steps two days in a row will wear on your feet. I'm sure I'll be numb to it soon. Good news is that jet lag seems to be conquered by both of us. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250705-STKL2336.jpg" 
    caption = "The weather has been absolutely perfect." 
    alt = "Erika looking cute"
>}}