+++
title = "Eurotrip 8: Travel to Il Borgo"
date = 2025-07-11
tags = ["post"]
draft = false
+++

Light on content today, but I'll make up for it with more photos of Il Borgo tomorrow. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250711-STKL4020.jpg" 
    caption = "Back to it." 
    alt = "Erika munches on yet another baked good"
>}}

Cibrèo Caffè for breakfast, which was right around the corner from our AirBnb and a spot that our host recommended. In hindsight, I wish we had stuck with his suggestions for everything. Cap (7/10), pastries, and a sandwich consisting of ham and whipped creamy butter on soft bread.

It was check-out time from our AirBnb, so we ferried our baggage to a storage spot close to the train station and killed a couple hours by wandering the *extremely* touristy Mercato Centrale. If you're going, I highly recommend the Mercato di Sant'Ambrogio, which we went into a few times just to gawk at the quality of the produce. 

Another future-Stephen trip note that might benefit others -- booking a train out in the mid-afternoon is great because there's less rush-hour traffic, but you need to be sure that you can get a later check-out and actually have things you want to do in the city. Today we kinda just wanted to get the show on the road, and were still a little gun-shy from our earlier train experiences, so we arrived to the train station like an hour-and-a-half early. That's unnecessary.

Benefit is our train travel was silky smooth today. Florence > Bologna > Reggio Emilia, where we caught a taxi down to Il Borgo.

I knew that Il Borgo was exactly what we needed when, the second I got out of the taxi, I was greeted by Jackie, their super-sweet pup. Y'all know I'm a sucker for a nice dog. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250711-STKL4028.jpg" 
    caption = "The OG room at Il Borgo. It was great while it lasted. Practically ran to the pool after taking this." 
    alt = "view out to the courtyard from our first room"
>}}

The owner showed us to our first room, and we wasted no time in changing to our swimsuits and heading out to the garden pool. I love how this property has their pool set up. The loungers aren't surrounding the pool, instead they're spread out in the surrounding garden, so everyone gets a bit of privacy and also a better chance to appreciate the garden's nooks and crannies. 

Just the 30 minutes we spent in the pool did wonders for the joints. I plan on spending all of tomorrow afternoon there.

After cleaning up for dinner, we noticed that the toilet was leaking from the base out onto the floor, so in the Kline-family tradition we were moved to another room. Kind of a pain, but also kind of a win because each of the rooms here are very different, and tomorrow we'll need to move *again*, but we'll get to experience a different room, in fact a suite. 

Dinner tonight was Cantina Garibaldi, which was recommended to us by the owners of Il Borgo. One gripe -- having to take a taxi everywhere really offends my American sensibilities. Really wish I had just booked a rental car from the train station, these roads are perfectly navigable, even for me. 

But that didn't take away from our dinner, which ranks as easily one of the best of our trip. Sparkling white wine followed by a sparkling red, both of which have been sneaky favorites of mine so far. A local dish called erbazzone with mortadella and a crispy crouton-like bread, antipasti of caddellacci with like a foamed cheese base, and carpaccio with apple and hazelnut. Desert was the Italian version of millefeuille, millefoglie. 

{{< 
    figure src = "/20250711-STKL4061.jpg" 
    caption = "Dinner with a view of the Italian countryside, including bailers." 
    alt = "a hay bailer road by the window with a beautiful cloudy sky"
>}}

No AC tonight at the Borgo, so a far cry from our Eight. The mosquitos are out here too, so sleeping with the window open doesn't feel like an option. Wish us luck. 